## [Enhance your service availability and data locality by using Azure Traffic Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/index)
- [Introduction](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/1-introduction)

- [Route network traffic by using Traffic Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/2-priority-routing)
  - How Traffic Manager works
    - Traffic Manager uses DNS to direct clients to a specific service endpoint IP address based on the rules of the traffic routing method that's used.
    - Traffic Manager isn't a proxy or gateway. 
    - Traffic Manager doesn't see the traffic that passes between the clients and the service; it just gives clients the IP address of where they need to go.
  - Traffic Manager endpoints
    - Endpoints are the destination location that is returned to the client. You configure each application deployment as an 'endpoint' in Traffic Manager. 
      - **Azure endpoints** are used for services hosted in Azure.
      - **External endpoints** are used for IPv4/IPv6 addresses, FQDNs, or for services hosted outside Azure that can either be on-premises or with a different hosting provider.
      - **Nested endpoints** are used to combine Traffic Manager profiles to create more flexible traffic-routing schemes to support the needs of larger, more complex deployments.
    - Traffic Manager routing methods
      - **Weighted routing**
        - Choose weighted when you want to distribute traffic across a set of endpoints, either evenly or based on different weights.
        - The weight is an integer from 1 to 1,000.
      - **Performance routing**
        - If you have endpoints in different geographic locations, you can use performance routing to send users to the endpoint that has the best performance for the user.
      - **Geographic routing**
        - With the geographic routing method, users are directed to specific endpoints based on where their DNS query originates.
      - **Multivalue routing**
        - You can use the multivalue routing method to get multiple healthy endpoints in a single DNS query response. The caller can make client-side retries with other endpoints if an endpoint is unresponsive. 
      - **Subnet routing**
        - This method maps the set of user IP address ranges to specific endpoints within a Traffic Manager profile.
      - **Priority routing**
        - The Traffic Manager profile contains a prioritized list of service endpoints. By default, Traffic Manager sends all traffic to the primary (highest-priority) endpoint. If the primary endpoint isn't available, Traffic Manager routes the traffic to the second endpoint.
  
- [Exercise - Enable automatic failover by using priority routing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/3-exercise-priority-routing)
  - The sample application we use for this exercise displays the region it's running in. One of the two instances has higher priority and is the primary endpoint. The other instance has a lower priority and is the failover endpoint. Taking the primary endpoint offline automatically routes all traffic to the failover endpoint.
    - Create a new Traffic Manager profile
      ```
      az network traffic-manager profile create \
        --resource-group Sandbox resource group  \
        --name TM-MusicStream-Priority \
        --routing-method Priority \
        --unique-dns-name TM-MusicStream-Priority-$RANDOM
      ```
    - Deploy the web applications
      - Run this command to deploy a Resource Manager template. The template creates two servers, one in the East Asia region, and one in the West US 2 region
    - Add the endpoints to Traffic Manager
      ```
        WestId=$(az network public-ip show \
            --resource-group Sandbox resource group  \
            --name westus2-vm-nic-pip \
            --query id \
            --out tsv)

        az network traffic-manager endpoint create \
            --resource-group Sandbox resource group  \
            --profile-name TM-MusicStream-Priority \
            --name "Primary-WestUS" \
            --type azureEndpoints \
            --priority 1 \
            --target-resource-id $WestId
      ```
    - Disable the primary endpoint.
    ```
    az network traffic-manager endpoint update \
        --resource-group Sandbox resource group   \
        --name "Primary-WestUS" \
        --profile-name TM-MusicStream-Priority \
        --type azureEndpoints \
        --endpoint-status Disabled
    ```
- [Optimize applications across regions by using performance routing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/4-performance-routing)
  - Performance routing
    - Azure stores historical DNS query latency for connecting clients in an internet latency table. Azure can use this information to direct traffic to the fastest responding server, which is the server with the lowest latency. 
- [Exercise - Optimize applications across regions by using performance routing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/5-exercise-performance-routing)
- [Summary](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-traffic-manager/6-summary)