# [Develop and configure an ASP.NET application that queries an Azure SQL database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/index)
- [Introduction](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/1-introduction)
- [Create tables, bulk import, and query data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/2-create-tables-bulk-import-query-data)
  - Create a single database
    - To use CLI, run the `az sql server create` and `az sql db create` commands.
    - To use PowerShell, run the `New-AzSqlServer` and `New-AzSqlDatabase` commands.
  - Bulk import data with bcp
    - Microsoft provides several tools that you can use to upload data to your SQL database:
      - SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)
      - The SQL BULK INSERT statement
      - The Bulk Copy Program (bcp) utility
        - The bcp utility is often used because it's convenient and can be easily scripted to import data into multiple tables. The bcp utility is a command-line tool that you can use to import and export data from a database. To import data, bcp requires these three things:
        - The source data to upload
        - An existing table in the destination database
        - A format file that defines the format of the data and how to map the data to columns in the destination table
    - To generate the format file
      - Run the following command to create a format file. Replace the items in angle brackets with the values for your database, server, user name, and password:
      - `bcp <database>.dbo.mytable format nul -c -f mytable.fmt -t, -S <server>.database.windows.net -U <username> -P <password>`
        - The target table (<`database>.<schema>.<table>`)
        - The data to be imported and details about the data (`format nul -c -f mytable.fmt -t,`)
        - The connection details for your database (`-S <server>.database.windows.net -U <username> -P <password>`)
      - The format looks like this
        ```
        14.0
        2
        1       SQLCHAR             0       12      ","    1     MyColumn1                                ""
        2       SQLCHAR             0       50      "\n"   2     MyColumn2                                SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS
        ```
        - First columnin both lines start with a number. These are the column numbers in the table. 
        - The second field (SQLCHAR) specifies that when we use this format file to import data, each field in the source file contains character data. The bcp utility will try to convert this data to the appropriate type for the corresponding column in the table. 
        - The next field (12 and 50) is the length of the data in each column in the database. Don't change this! 
        - The following items ("," and "\n") are the field terminator in the source file and the newline character, respectively. 
        - The next column is the field number in the source file. The second-last field (MyColumn1 and MyColumn2) is the name of the column in the database. The last field is the collation to use, which only applies to character data in the database.
    - Import data
      - `bcp <database>.dbo.mytable in mydata.csv -f mytable.fmt -S <server>.database.windows.net -U <username> -P <password> -F 2`
- [Exercise - Create tables, bulk import, and query data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/3-exercise-create-tables-bulk-import-query-data)
- [Connect an ASP.NET application to Azure SQL Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/4-connect-aspnet-to-azure-sql)
  - `System.Data.SqlClient` library overview
    - The System.Data.SqlClient library is a collection of types and methods that you can use to connect to a SQL Server database that's running on-premises or in the cloud on SQL Database. 
  - Connect to a single database
    - You use an SqlConnection object to create a database connection. You provide a connection string that specifies the name and location of the database, the credentials to use, and other connection-related parameters.
      - `Server=tcp:myserver.database.windows.net,1433;Initial Catalog=mydatabase;Persist Security Info=False;User ID=myusername;Password=mypassword;MultipleActiveResultSets=False;Encrypt=True;TrustServerCertificate=False;Connection Timeout=30;`
    ```c#
    ...
        using (SqlConnection con = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
        {
            SqlCommand command = new SqlCommand("DELETE FROM ...", con);
            try
            {
                con.Open();
                command.ExecuteNonQuery();
            }
            catch (SqlException ex)
            {
                for (int i = 0; i < ex.Errors.Count; i++)
                {
                    Console.WriteLine($"Index # {i} Error: {ex.Errors[i].ToString()}");
                }
            }
        }
    ```
- [Exercise - Connect an ASP.NET application to Azure SQL Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/5-exercise-connect-aspnet-to-azure-sql)
- [Summary](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/learn/modules/develop-app-that-queries-azure-sql/6-summary)

